---
title: "Week 0 - Landing in robotics"
categories:
  - Weekly Log
tags:
  - github page
  - ros noetic
  - carla
---

This is my first entry on the weekly blog of my master's thesis. During this first week I had to prepare the working environment. 

First, I needed to install the LTS (Long-Term Support) version of Ubuntu, specifically Ubuntu 22.04.1, in my desktop computer. This wasn't very hard because I already had a SSD which a was not using installed on the desktop, so I just installed Ubuntu there and ran it without any problem.

To continue, I had to install the software for self-driving simulations CARLA, in its version 0.9.13, which at first seemed to be a more complicated task, but finally it wasn't. 

After that, I started to play a little with this simulator, creating some agents and changing the weather, the town, the type of vehicle and its sensors, etc. The most difficult part was when I wanted to have a RGB camera attached to a car and display the data captured with the camera in real time using OpenCV imshow method. The problem I had was that I was trying to display the images in the same thread where the camera was getting the data, so this resulted in some bugs when calling OpenCV imshow method.


To solve this, I spent a lot of time reading a lot of OpenCV and CARLA's documentation, and I finally realised what my problem was, so I was able to solve it. In this video you can see the demonstration.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ma7VWEXHIbY" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


As you can see, in this video there are some kind of "jumps". Perhaps, this is due to the recording speed of the application I've used to record the video, because when I run the python script and I see the real-time images in my local machine, there are no jumps. This is something I will investigate in the following weeks.


One of the tasks I've also done this week has been to create a blog using GitHub Pages. For that I needed to clone the repository [minimal-mistakes](https://github.com/mmistakes/minimal-mistakes) and read some of its documentation.


Finally, in order to introduce myself a bit more in the world of robotics, I've been reading some master's thesis in this area, which were provided by my master's thesis tutor.